Exception for Retire Prior To (#3643)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

parameter.

An endpoint SHOULD ensure that its peer has a sufficient number of available and
unused connection IDs.  Endpoints advertise the number of active connection IDs
they are willing to maintain using the active_connection_id_limit transport
parameter.  An endpoint MUST NOT provide more connection IDs than the peer's
limit.  An endpoint MAY send connection IDs that temporarily exceed a peer's
limit if the NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame also requires the retirement of any excess,
by including a sufficiently large value in the Retire Prior To field.

> A NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame might cause an endpoint to add some active connection
> IDs and retire others based on the value of the Retire Prior To field.  After

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame might cause an endpoint to add an active connection
ID and retire others based on the value of the Retire Prior To field.  After
```

unused connection IDs.  Endpoints store received connection IDs for future use
and advertise the number of connection IDs they are willing to store with the
active_connection_id_limit transport parameter.  An endpoint MUST NOT provide

> more connection IDs than the peer's limit, with the exception that connection

Reviewer 2: Both these sentences are onerous to read and super long... can you break them up a bit?

IDs MAY be provided if sent in a NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame that also requests the
retirement of enough connection IDs that the number of active connection IDs

> will stay within the limit.  An endpoint that receives a NEW_CONNECTION_ID
> frame that increases the number of active connection IDs - without a Retire
> Prior To field that requests retirement of enough active connections to keep the
> total number of active connection IDs within the value the endpoint advertised
> in its active_connection_id_limit transport parameter - MUST close the
> connection with an error of type CONNECTION_ID_LIMIT_ERROR.

Author: Maybe this is better:

```suggestion
will stay within the limit.  A NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame might cause an endpoint
might add some active connection IDs and retire others based on the value of the
Retire Prior To field.  After processing a NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame and adding a
retiring active connection IDs, if the number of active connections exceeds the
value advertised in its active_connection_id_limit transport parameter, an
endpoint MUST close the connection with an error of type
CONNECTION_ID_LIMIT_ERROR.
```

Reviewer 2: I can't comment on this change, so writing my comments here. The first sentence needs editorial fixing ("might cause an endpoint might add some active"). But I definitely prefer this version to the original.

unused connection IDs.  Endpoints store received connection IDs for future use
and advertise the number of connection IDs they are willing to store with the
active_connection_id_limit transport parameter.  An endpoint MUST NOT provide
more connection IDs than the peer's limit, with the exception that connection
IDs MAY be provided if sent in a NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame that also requests the
retirement of enough connection IDs that the number of active connection IDs

> will stay within the limit.  An endpoint that receives more connection IDs than
> its advertised active_connection_id_limit MUST close the connection with an
> error of type CONNECTION_ID_LIMIT_ERROR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will stay within the limit.  An endpoint that receives a NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame
with an Sequence Number more than its advertised active_connection_id_limit plus the Retire Prior To
in the frame MUST close the connection with an error of type
CONNECTION_ID_LIMIT_ERROR.
```

Author: Ahh, good.  But not quite.  You have to subtract any retired connection IDs from that.

Author: I took another tilt at this one.  It's very awkward though.

more connection IDs than the peer's limit, with the exception that connection
IDs MAY be provided if sent in a NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame that also requests the
retirement of enough connection IDs that the number of active connection IDs
will stay within the limit.  An endpoint that receives a NEW_CONNECTION_ID
frame that increases the number of active connection IDs - without a Retire
Prior To field that requests retirement of enough active connections to keep the
total number of active connection IDs within the value the endpoint advertised
in its active_connection_id_limit transport parameter - MUST close the

> connection with an error of type CONNECTION_ID_LIMIT_ERROR.

Reviewer: This is hard to write, here's my best shot.

```suggestion
frame that increases the number of active connection IDs above the value
advertised in its active_connection_id_limit transport parameter without a
Retire Prior To field that requests retirement of enough active connection IDs
to stay below the limit once retired MUST close the connection with an error
of type CONNECTION_ID_LIMIT_ERROR.
```
